JEFFREY S. GRAY #5852
Utah County Attorney
BENJAMIN C. VAN NOY #15513
CHRISTOPHER D. BALLARD #8497
Deputy Utah County Attorneys
100 East Center Street, Suite 2100
Provo, Utah 84606
Phone: (801) 851-8026

Attorneys for the State of Utah and
the Utah County Sheriff’s Office


                      IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
                           UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH


                                                      OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO STRIKE
  STATE OF UTAH,                                      RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S
      Plaintiff,                                      MOTION TO APPEAR AT ALL IN-
                                                      PERSON PROCEEDINGS IN CIVILIAN
  v.                                                  CLOTHING AND WITHOUT
                                                      RESTRAINTS
  TYLER JAMES ROBINSON,
      Defendant.                                                 Case No. 251403576

                                                                Judge Tony F. Graf, Jr.


       The State and the Utah County Sheriff’s Office (Sheriff) oppose Defendant’s motion to

strike their joint response to Defendant’s motion to appear at hearings in civilian clothing and

without restraints.

                                          ARGUMENT

       The Sheriff has standing to respond. Defendant’s assertion that the Sheriff has no

standing to respond to a motion that directly implicates court security protocols ignores the Court’s

Interim Orders and the Court’s security rule. See Mot. at 1-3. The October 13 Interim Order

explicitly requires a response from the Sheriff. See Oct. 13 Interim Order at 2. And both the

October 13th and 14th Interim Orders required Defendant to “serve his motion on the Utah County
Sheriff’s Office, Corrections Division, as soon as possible.” See Oct. 13 and Oct. 14 Interim

Orders. It makes no difference that the October 13 undocketed order set expedited deadlines for

responses from both the Sheriff and the State, while the October 14 docketed order set a deadline

for a response only from the State. Both orders still required Defendant to serve his motion on the

Sheriff. This requirement would be meaningless if the Court did not want the Sheriff’s response

to the motion. And nothing in the October 14 docketed order stated that only the State could or

should respond to Defendant’s motion.

       Even if the Court’s orders did not require the Sheriff’s response, persons other than the

primary parties have standing to appear and participate as limited-purpose parties when a statute

or rule allows them to provide input or seek a remedy. See F.L. v. Court of Appeals, 2022 UT 32,

¶¶ 35-39, 515 P.3d 421 (recognizing crime victim’s standing to appear as limited-purpose party to

protect her privileged medical records where Utah R. Evid. 506 allows patient to claim privilege);

State v. Brown, 2014 UT 48, ¶¶ 13-20, 342 P.3d 239 (recognizing crime victim’s standing to appear

as limited-purpose party to assert claim for restitution where statute recognizes victims’ right to

seek restitution); State ex rel. J.T., 2023 UT App 157, ¶¶ 36-40, 542 P.3d 517 (recognizing

grandmother’s standing to intervene as limited-purpose party to request preferential consideration

as temporary kinship placement for grandchildren involved in child welfare proceeding where

statute requires preferential consideration of relative’s placement request).

       Defendant recognizes this principle but incorrectly states that the Sheriff provided no

authority that would grant him standing to respond. See Mot. at 2. As explained in the joint

response, both rule and statute require the Sheriff’s expert input on court security issues. See Resp.

to Def.’s Mot. to Appear at 6-10, 14-17. Rule 17.5 of the Utah Rules of Criminal Procedure

requires the Court to consider “the preference of the incarcerating custodian” when considering



                                                  2
the best format for conducting a hearing, provided “the hearing does not implicate significant

constitutional rights.” Utah R. Crim. P. 17.5(b)(10). Additionally, the Sheriff’s statutory duties

include “attend[ing] in person or by deputy … all courts of record” and “comply[ing] with the

court security rule, Rule 3-414, of the Utah Code of Judicial Administration.” Utah Code § 17-22-

2(1)(c). The court security rule makes court security “the joint effort of law enforcement and the

judiciary.” Utah R. Jud. Admin. 3-414(1)(A) (emphasis added). The rule also gives “the county

sheriff” direct responsibility for district court security. Id. 3-414(5)(b)(ii). More importantly, in

“highly publicized” cases like this one, the rule requires (1) the Sheriff’s Office to provide

additional security and (2) the implementation of a “written operational plan outlining and

assigning security duties” to be carried out by the Sheriff’s personnel. Id. 3-414(9)(D). Because

the relevant statute and rule require the Sheriff’s expert input on security measures, especially in

cases like this one where the Defendant’s request potentially compromises court security, and

because the Interim Orders required the Sheriff’s input, the Sheriff has standing to provide that

input.

         Contrary to Defendant’s assertion, the fact that the Sheriff may be required to provide

documents or have his personnel testify at an evidentiary hearing doesn’t deprive the Sheriff of

standing. Mot. at 3. A crime victim who appears as a limited-purpose party asserting a restitution

claim will always also be a witness who provides documents and testimony to support her claim.

Even a primary party like a criminal defendant may choose to testify and may provide documents

to support his defense. Nothing therefore prevents this Court from considering the Sheriff’s input

on the security issues that Defendant’s motion raises.

         A joint response is both appropriate and efficient. Additionally, contrary to Defendant’s

suggestion, there is nothing “concerning” about the State and the Sheriff filing a joint response to



                                                 3
Defendant’s motion. Mot. 3-4. The State and the Sheriff filed a joint response because their

positions are aligned on these issues. As the court’s security rule recognizes, the Sheriff is the

expert on court security. See Utah R. Jud. Admin. 3-414(5)(B)(ii); (9)(D). Because the State agrees

with the Sheriff’s position on these matters, a joint response was both appropriate and efficient.

Moreover, because the Sheriff has standing for the reasons explained above, a joint response was

not a veiled attempt to allow the Sheriff to somehow “assume standing.”1 See Mot. at 4.

                                         CONCLUSION

       For the foregoing reasons, this Court should deny Defendant’s motion to strike.

       DATED October 22, 2025.

                                              UTAH COUNTY ATTORNEY’S OFFICE

                                              s/ Christopher D. Ballard
                                              Ben C. Van Noy
                                              Christopher D. Ballard
                                              Deputy Utah County Attorneys

                                              Attorneys for Plaintiff, State of Utah and
                                              the Utah County Sheriff’s Office




       1 Additionally, Defendant’s assertion is inconsistent with his standing argument.

Defendant hypothesizes that the State and the Sheriff could take different positions on the
motion, but earlier asserts that only the State has standing to respond. If Defendant were correct
about standing, then the State would have to assert both its interest and the Sheriff’s differing
interests in a single response. But Defendant then argues that such a response would improperly
“conflate[]” the Utah County Attorney’s Office’s roles as counsel for both the State and the
Sheriff. Mot. at 3. Defendant’s inconsistent logic is unpersuasive.

                                                 4
                                CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I certify that on October 22, 2025, I filed the foregoing OPPOSITION TO MOTION TO

STRIKE RESPONSE TO DEFENDANT’S MOTION TO APPEAR AT ALL IN-PERSON

PROCEEDINGS IN CIVILIAN CLOTHING AND WITHOUT RESTRAINTS through the

court’s electronic filing system, which emailed a copy to all counsel of record.


                                                     s/ Christopher D. Ballard
                                                     Christopher D. Ballard




                                                 5
