C. Michael Judd (14692)
PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER
201 South Main Street, Suite 1800
Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
Tel.: (801) 532-1234
mjudd@parsonsbehle.com
Attorneys for Proposed Media Intervenors

                      IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
                              UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH


 STATE OF UTAH,
                                                        REPLY IN SUPPORT OF MOTION
                          Plaintiff,                     FOR LIMITED INTERVENTION
 vs.
                                                                 Case No: 251403576
 TYLER JAMES ROBINSON,
                                                                Judge Tony F. Graf, Jr.
                          Defendant.


                        Statement of Matters Raised in Response Filings

       Through their Motion for Limited Intervention, Proposed Media Intervenors1 asked the

Court to protect the press’s and the public’s access rights by entering an Order that does three

things: (1) formally recognizes limited intervention by the Media Intervenors, (2) requires the par-

ties to provide Media Intervenors with prompt notice of attempts to limit access, and (3) directs

that Media Inventors be given a meaningful opportunity to oppose access restrictions. See Mot. for

Limited Intervention & Request for Notice [Doc. 164].

       In a November 13, 2025 Order, the Court recognized receipt of requests for notice of motions

to classify or close records in this case and ordered that “all future motions to classify a record in




1 The Salt Lake Tribune and its reporter Jessica Schreifels (together, “The Tribune”); St. George

News; The Associated Press; Fox13 News; Millard County Chronicle Progress; KOAL (Castle
Country Radio); KUER-FM; Lehi Free Press; The Park Record; CBS Broadcasting Inc.; The New
York Times Company; CNN; Fox News Media; and Law & Crime Network.


                                                  1
this case must be served on representatives of the press who requested notice.” See Order Requir-

ing Notice & Service [Doc. 171].

      After that Order, the State and Mr. Robinson both responded to Media Intervenors’ Motion.

The State does not oppose the relief Media Intervenors seek. See State Resp. to Mot. for Limited

Intervention (“State Resp.”) [Doc. 187]. And Mr. Robinson agrees to “comply with the Court’s

order requiring the party filing a motion to reclassify a record to service such motion on represent-

atives of the media who have requested notice.” See Robinson Resp. to Mot. for Limited Interven-

tion (“Robinson Resp.”) [Doc. 185]. However, Mr. Robinson asks the Court to deny Media Inter-

venors’ request for “more formal status in this litigation.” See id. at 3. Even in arguing against

limited intervention, though, Mr. Robinson appears untroubled by the protections the Media Inter-

venors ask the Court to implement:

      Having now requested notice, Proposed Media Intervenors are entitled to notice and
      the opportunity to be heard regarding motions to reclassify court records and closure
      requests. In this regard, they have standing and it is anticipated that the Court will
      permit the media to be heard on these issues in the manner the Court deems appropri-
      ate.

Id. at 7 (emphasis added). To the extent Mr. Robinson truly opposes the relief the Media Interve-

nors seek, that opposition appears to center on the durability of Media Intervenors’ involvement

in the case. Mr. Robinson’s preference is that the Media Intervenors operate under “event-specific

protocols”—that is, that the Media Intervenors make a fresh appearance each time a party asks to

reclassify a record or close a hearing and argue anew that they have standing to do so. See id. at 5.

      Mr. Robinson has the wrong side of this argument. Utah law does recognize limited inter-

vention—that is, appearance as a limited-purpose party to be heard in discrete issues—in a variety

of contexts, including for members of the media seeking to protect access rights. And given the

Court’s subsequent written orders regarding access and the responses filed by the State and Mr.

Robinson, there is now little left in dispute. On reply, then, the Media Intervenors have only two

                                                 2
modest requests: (1) the Court enter an order formally recognizing the Media Intervenors as lim-

ited-purpose parties, as that recognition promotes efficiency, tracks established practices in Utah

courts, and may ultimately prove consequential, particularly in the event of an appeal, and (2) the

Court enter an order confirming that the notice-and-service provisions contained in its November

13, 2025 Order apply not only to “motions to classify a record,” but also to other attempts to limit

press or public access, including requests to close proceedings or limit electronic media coverage.

                                             Argument
I.    In Its November 13, 2025 Order, the Court Set a Durable Rule Regarding Notice and
      Service for Requests to Classify Records, and the State and Mr. Robinson Have Agreed
      to Abide by That Rule.

      The Court’s November 13, 2025 Order provides durable instruction for handling record-

classification motions going forward: “all future motions to classify a record must be served on

representatives of the press who requested notice.” See Order Requiring Notice & Service

[Doc. 171]. Both the State and Mr. Robinson have recognized and agreed to abide by that instruc-

tion. See State Resp., at 1–2 [Doc. 187] (“The State agrees that the parties should be required to

serve the Media Outlets with copies of the types of motions they have identified, and that Media

Outlets should also have an opportunity to appear and be heard on those discrete issues as limited-

purpose parties.”); Robinson Resp., at 3 [Doc. 185] (“Of course, Mr. Robinson’s counsel will

comply with the Court’s order requiring the party filing a motion to reclassify a record to serve

such motion on representatives of the media who have requested notice.”). That order and agree-

ment resolve the threshold request made by the Media Intervenors in their Motion to Intervene.

II.   Utah Recognizes Limited Intervention for Media Entities Making Access Challenges,
      and Formal Recognition Streamlines Both Underlying Proceedings and Appeals.

      The State also agrees that the Media Intervenors may formally appear as limited-purpose

parties to be heard on issues that relate to access, classification, and closure. See State Resp., at 3



                                                  3
[Doc. 187] (“The State therefore agrees that the Court should allow the Media Outlets to appear

as limited-purpose parties to address those issues.”). Mr. Robinson disagrees, arguing that “the

Court should not permit the Proposed Media Intervenors to become a named party, even a limited-

purpose party, in this case.” Robinson Resp., at 7 [Doc. 185].

      Mr. Robinson suggests that limited intervention by the Media Intervenors would be unusual.

It would not. As the News Media explained in their parallel Motion to Intervene, Utah courts,

“including in this District, routinely grant requests in criminal proceedings for limited intervention

by the news media.” See News Media Mot. to Intervene, at 4 & n.1 [Doc. 197] (collecting cases).

Granting limited intervention would help ensure that disputes over access, classification, and clo-

sure are handled efficiently, on a regular timeline, and by an established set of procedures. It would

also ensure that any appeal from a closure decision could take place under traditional rules. See,

e.g., Society of Prof. Journalists v. Bullock, 743 P.2d 1166, 1176 (Utah 1987) (stressing the im-

portance of media parties taking affirmative “steps to assert their right to access” at the district-

court level); F.L. v. Court of Appeals, 2022 UT 32, ¶ 30, 515 P.3d 421 (“[E]xtraordinary relief is

authorized because the court of appeals made a mistake of law in not allowing her to intervene for

the limited purpose of asserting her privilege in her confidential therapy records.”).

      When media entities seek access to records or otherwise oppose closure, limited intervention

is more than a permissible approach—it’s the preferred one. See, e.g., Angilau v. United States,

No. 2:16-cv-992, 2017 WL 9496068 (D. Utah July 27, 2017). The Media Intervenors therefore

reaffirm their request that they be formally recognized as intervenors in a limited capacity to con-

test access, classification, and closure.




                                                  4
III. The Notice-and-Service Rule Articulated by the Court Should Apply to Any Attempt
     to Limit Access, Including Requests to Close Proceedings.

      Finally, the Media Intervenors ask that the Court enter an order confirming that the provi-

sions of its November 13, 2025 Order related to record-classification challenges will also apply to

other attempts to limit access in this matter, including requests to exclude the press or public from

court proceedings. Both the State and Mr. Robinson appear to agree that other closure attempts

could be efficiently addressed through the same procedures outlined in the November 13, 2025

order, including notice and service of the motion that seeks to limit access, followed by an oppor-

tunity to be heard at a closure hearing and in a prior written response. See Robinson Resp., at 2

[Doc. 185] (acknowledging media rights for both “the potential sealing of a record or the closing

of a hearing”); State Resp., at 3 [Doc. 187] (“The State also agrees . . . that the parties should serve

the Media Outlets with any motion that seeks to limit access to court hearings . . . .”). The Media

Intervenors therefore ask the Court to order that procedures regarding notice and service and an

opportunity to be heard on access issues apply equally to attempts to reclassify records, to close or

restrict attendance at court proceedings, and to otherwise limit press or public access in this matter.

                                             Conclusion

      For the reasons detailed above, Media Intervenors ask the Court to enter an order granting

limited intervention and requiring prompt notice and an opportunity for the Media Intervenors to

be heard on all attempts to limit press or public access to proceedings.

      Respectfully submitted: November 26, 2025.

                                              By:       /s/ C. Michael Judd
                                                        C. Michael Judd
                                                        PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER
                                                        Attorneys for Proposed Media Intervenors




                                                    5
                                  CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

          I hereby certify that on November 26, 2025, I electronically filed the foregoing with the

Court using the electronic filing system, which sent notification of such filing to all attorneys of

record.

                                                      /s/ C. Michael Judd
