IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
IN AND FOR UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

STATE OF UTAH,
PROTECTION ORDER
Plaintiff, RE: PRE-TRIAL AND TRIAL
PUBLICITY
VS.
TYLER JAMES ROBINSON, Case No. 251403576
Defendant. Judge Tony F. Graf, Jr.

Defendant Tyler James Robinson is charged with one count of aggravated murder and
other felonies.

This case has generated and is likely to continue to generate significant pre-trial and trial
publicity. That publicity can compromise Defendant Tyler James Robinson’s right to due process
of law as well as both parties’ rights to a fair and impartial jury trial. Pre-trial publicity is of
particular concern because it can taint the prospective jury pool.

To protect the parties’ fundamental rights, the court, on its own motion, issues the
following:

PROTECTION ORDER

Lawyers who have participated, who are now participating, or who will yet participate in
the investigation or litigation of this case in any way shall abide strictly by Rule 3.6. of the Utah
Rules of Professional Conduct. Rule 3.6 prohibits a lawyer from making “an extrajudicial
statement that the lawyer knows or reasonably should know will be disseminated by means of
public communication and will have a substantial likelihood of materially prejudicing an

adjudicative proceeding in the matter.” Utah R. Prof. Cond. 3.6(a).
Lawyers who have participated, who are now participating, or who will yet participate in
the investigation or litigation of this case shall not intentionally, knowingly, or recklessly permit
a witness, investigator, consultant, staff member, or other member of the prosecution or defense
team to make extrajudicial statements which, if made by the lawyer, would violate Rule 3.6. To
that end, lawyers participating in the investigation or litigation of this case shall inform all
witnesses, investigators, consultants, staff members, or other members of the prosecution or
defense teams about the prohibitions contained in this order.

This protection order applies to lawyers who are not participating in the investigation or
litigation of this case, but who are associated with the Utah County Attorney’s office or
associated with defense counsels’ firm or firms. See Utah R. Prof. Cond. 3.6(d). Court staff is
also ordered to not make public statements that would violate the provisions of this order.

This order does not prohibit lawyers from making statements permitted by Rule 3.6. See

Utah R. Prof. Cond. 3.6(b)(c).

Dated this 16th day of September, 2025.
errs

N
