                 IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT, PROVO DEPARTMENT
                       IN AND FOR UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH

 STATE OF UTAH,
                                                                    RULE 8 DECLARATION
                                                                    OF MICHAEL N. BURT
                   Plaintiff,
                                                                        Case No. 251403576
     v.
                                                                       Judge Tony F. Graf Jr.
 TYLER JAMES ROBINSON,

                   Defendant.

          Pursuant to Rule 8 of the Utah Rules of Criminal Procedure I hereby certify that:

1.        I have been in the practice of law for 47 years with an emphasis exclusively on
          criminal defense work for the entirety of my career.

2.        I have tried over fifty cases to a jury, including 8 lengthy capital cases in state or
          federal courts in California, Hawaii, Massachusetts, New Mexico, and
          Pennsylvania . In addition, I have been appointed Learned Counsel under 18
          U.S.C. § 3005 in 27 federal death penalty cases throughout the country. I am
          attaching a copy of my curriculum vitae to detail my experience in capital cases.
          See Exhibit A.

3.        I have previously appeared as lead or co-counsel on eight capital cases that
          proceeded to verdict and many others where the case was resolved prior to or
          during trial.

4.        I have sufficient time and resources to dedicate to the representation of the
          defendant charged with capital crimes.

5.        I have attended hundreds of in person CLE devoted exclusively to the defense of
          individuals facing capital charges, 16 hours of which were attended within the last
          year. I have presented in excess of 120 hours of in person CLE devoted to the defense
          of individuals facing capital charges. . Since 2001, I have been employed by the
          Administrative Office of the United States Courts as a Federal Death Penalty Resource
          Counsel. In that capacity, I assist lawyers throughout the United States in the defense of
          federal capital cases, and I also train lawyers throughout the country on the standard of
          practice applicable in capital cases. I have been qualified and testified as a capital case
          standard of practice expert in both state and federal courts.

6.        I consider myself to be qualified at the trial level in representing a criminal
          defendant in capital proceedings.
 DATED this 25th day of September, 2025.


                                                  /s/ Michael N. Burt




                                CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I hereby certify that on this 25th day of September, 2025, I caused a true and correct copy

of the foregoing RULE 8 DECLARATION OF MICHAEL N. BURT to be filed via electronic

filing, which provides automatic notice to the prosecution of record.



                                                  /s/ Kathryn Nester
