 Jeffrey J. Hunt (5855)                           C. Michael Judd (14692)
 David C. Reymann (8495)                          PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER
 Carissa A. Uresk (18114)                         201 South Main Street, Suite 1800
 PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
 101 South 200 East, Suite 700                    Telephone: (801) 532-1234
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84111                       mjudd@parsonsbehle.com
 Telephone: (801) 532-7840
 jhunt@parrbrown.com                              Attorneys for The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica
 dreymann@parrbrown.com                           Schreifels, St. George News, the Associated
 curesk@parrbrown.com                             Press, Fox13 News, Millard County
                                                  Chronicle Progress, KOAL (Castle County
 Attorneys for the Deseret News, Deseret          Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi Free Press, The
 Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-TV,       Park Record, CBS Broadcasting, Inc., The
 KSL NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio             New York Times Company, CNN, Fox News
 Television Digital News Association, and the     Media, and Law & Crime Network
 Utah Headliners Chapter of the Society of
 Professional Journalists


                      IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
                             UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH


 STATE OF UTAH,                                       NEWS MEDIA’S MOTION FOR
                                                      ATTORNEYS EYES ONLY ACCESS
        Plaintiff,                                    TO CLOSURE MOTIONS

 v.                                                   (Hearing Requested)

 TYLER JAMES ROBINSON,                                Case No. 251403576

        Defendant.                                    Hon. Tony F. Graf, Jr.


       The Deseret News, Deseret Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-TV, KSL

NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio Television Digital News Association, the Utah Headliners

Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica Schreifels, St.

George News, the Associated Press, Fox13 News, Millard County Chronicle Progress, KOAL

(Castle County Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi Free Press, The Park Record, CBS Broadcasting, Inc.,

The New York Times Company, CNN, Fox News Media, and Law & Crime Network (all
collectively, News Media) respectfully move the Court to order that counsel for the News Media

be provided Attorneys Eyes Only access to motions for closure so the News Media may

meaningfully brief those issues for the Court. The News Media request a hearing.

                                           ARGUMENT

         Counsel for the News Media are officers of the court. If the defense provides them with

their purportedly secret closure papers on the condition they be maintained on an Attorneys Eyes

Only basis, there is no reason to believe counsel would violate that restriction. But the defense

has refused to provide their sealed submissions, even with that procedural safeguard, to counsel

for the News Media, meaning the Court will not receive full and adequate briefing on the

weighty constitutional issues of closure. That position is unjustified and contrary to the normal

course of this Court’s presumptively public proceedings. This Court should flatly reject it.

         The News Media ask only this: When someone seeks to override the public’s right of

access to these proceedings and the papers filed in them, the News Media’s counsel should be

allowed to see the motion papers supporting that extraordinary request and meaningfully respond

on the merits. Their opposition, or at least parts of it, can even be filed under seal until further

court order (although even that is going astray from the normal constitutional order). Holding

otherwise, as the defense has reflexively insisted, is contrary to the fundamental principles of our

adversarial system of justice and the constitutional guarantee, which this Court has repeatedly

recognized, that these proceedings should be conducted in the light of day.

         Some things are not up for debate. One is that the News Media have a right to be heard,

in a meaningful manner, on the question of closure of court records, proceedings, and electronic

media coverage of these public proceedings. Indeed, the Utah Supreme Court has said they

“must be afforded an opportunity to participate in the proceedings to the maximum extent




4914-6146-9834                                    2
possible.” Kearns-Tribune Corp. v. Lewis, 685 P.2d 515, 524 (Utah 1984) (emphasis added); see

also Globe Newspaper Co. v. Superior Court, 457 U.S. 596, 609 n.25 (1982) (“[R]epresentatives

of the press and general public ‘must be given an opportunity to be heard on the question of their

exclusion.’” (citation omitted)).

         Another is that “the adversarial legal system disfavors one-sided proceedings.” State v.

Archibeque, 2022 UT 18, ¶ 15, 509 P.3d 768 (cleaned up). Doing what the defense is suggesting

is an invitation for this Court to commit error. As the Utah Supreme Court has explained:

         One-sided proceedings are disfavored under this system because they deprive the
         absent party of the right to respond and be heard. Information given to the court in
         such a proceeding may be incomplete or inaccurate and carries the attendant risk of
         an erroneous ruling on the law or facts. It is therefore inherently unfair to allow
         one party to put evidence before the court without allowing his opponent the
         opportunity to test its validity.

Id. (cleaned up) (emphasis added).

         Put another way, “[t]imely and adequate notice and an opportunity to be heard in a

meaningful way are the very heart of procedural fairness.” Nelson v. Jacobsen, 669 P.2d 1207,

1211 (Utah 1983) (emphasis added); see also id. at 1213 (“To satisfy an essential requisite of

procedural due process, a hearing must be prefaced by timely notice which adequately informs

the parties of the specific issues they must prepare to meet.” (cleaned up)); Smith v. Volkswagen

SouthTowne, Inc., 2022 UT 29, ¶ 116, 513 P.3d 729 (same); cf. Gordon v. State, 2016 UT 11, ¶

16, 369 P.3d 1255 (“A party opposing a motion is entitled to submit a memorandum in

opposition. And [petitioner] was afforded no such opportunity. That was error.”).

         Requiring the parties to provide closure motions on an Attorneys Eyes Only basis is not a

novel idea. It is a commonplace process used by other district court judges in Utah when issues




4914-6146-9834                                    3
like this arise. 1 Nor is there any conceivable prejudice to Defendant. Access to motion papers

and associated evidence would be limited to the News Media’s counsel until further order of the

Court, with opposition papers discussing any non-public information also treated similarly.

Those procedural safeguards fully protect Defendant’s rights while allowing the adversarial

process to function properly.

          Finally, the latest closure motion filed by the defense seeks to bar all video, audio, and

cameras from the courtroom for a case of substantial public interest, contrary to the presumption

in the Utah rules allowing such coverage. And it apparently contains more than two-hundred

pages of purported “evidence” supporting that request. The defense may not want to have their

“evidence” tested in a meaningful adversarial process, but that is not how our system works, and

it deprives this Court of the advocacy it needs to properly do its job.

                                            CONCLUSION

          For these reasons, this Court should order that any non-public closure motions and related

papers be timely served on counsel for the News Media, to be maintained as Attorneys Eyes

Only until further order of the Court.




1
    See, e.g., State v. Allgier, No. 071904711 (Utah 3d Dist. Ct.), (Order entered Sept 30, 2008).


4914-6146-9834                                      4
         RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this 29th day of January 2026.

                                           PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS

                                           /s/ David C. Reymann
                                           Jeffrey J. Hunt
                                           David C. Reymann
                                           Carissa A. Uresk

                                           Attorneys for Attorneys for the Deseret News,
                                           Deseret Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-
                                           TV, KSL NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio
                                           Television Digital News Association, and the Utah
                                           Headliners Chapter of the Society of Professional
                                           Journalists

                                           PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER

                                           /s/ C. Michael Judd
                                           C. Michael Judd

                                           Attorneys for The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica
                                           Schreifels, St. George News, the Associated Press,
                                           Fox13 News, Millard County Chronicle Progress,
                                           KOAL (Castle County Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi
                                           Free Press, The Park Record, CBS Broadcasting,
                                           Inc., The New York Times Company, CNN, Fox
                                           News Media, and Law & Crime Network




4914-6146-9834                                5
