Attachment E
From: Ryan McBride           @UtahCounty.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, January 21, 2026 1:16 PM
To: Chad Grunander           @UtahCounty.gov>
Subject: FW: Charlie Kirk Press conference




From:                             @washco.utah.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, September 17, 2025 1:34 PM
To: Ryan McBride           @UtahCounty.gov>
Subject: RE: Charlie Kirk Press conference

Thanks – I’ll make sure the Sheriﬀ has a copy.

From: Ryan McBride           @UtahCounty.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, September 17, 2025 1:33 PM
To:                           @washco.utah.gov>;         @washeriff.net
Subject: FW: Charlie Kirk Press conference

I’ll send a copy of the information shortly.

From: Ryan McBride
Sent: Wednesday, September 17, 2025 1:20 PM
To:          @washeriff.net
Cc: Jeff Gray          @utahcounty.gov>; Christopher Ballard        @utahcounty.gov>; Chad Grunander
         @UtahCounty.gov>
Subject: Charlie Kirk Press conference

Sheriff,
I am one of the prosecuting attorneys assigned to the Charlie Kirk aggravated murder case. As I was
driving in my car today I heard that you were holding a press conference about the case. I write to inform
you of the limitations on media coverage of open criminal cases. I have shared the attached letter with
the Governor, the FBI, and DOJ, Utah’s Department of Public Safety Commissioner and all agencies in
Utah County who had involvement in the case.

Please be aware that improper public statements can result in sanctions against the State in the case,
including even dismissal of the criminal charges, exclusion of evidence, delay, change of venue, and
others. In such an important case, we want to certain we do not have those sanctions in this case. Not
only could it result in a miscarriage of justice, it could look very bad for our state and our efforts.
                                                          1
With this said, please review the attached letter carefully, as well as the guidance from the ethical
rules below. DO NOT MENTION THAT ROBINSON INVOKED HIS FIFTH AMENDMENT RIGHT OR MAKE
COMMENTS ON HIS CHARACTER OR YOUR BELIEF OF HIS GUILT. Also, your statements about the facts
of the case should be limited to those included in the booking probable cause statement and the
probable cause statement included with the charging document.

The comment to Rule 3.6 of the rules of professional responsibility reads as follows:

       [5] There are certain subjects that are more likely than not to have a material prejudicial effect on
       a proceeding, particularly when they refer to a criminal matter or any other proceeding that could
       result in incarceration. These subjects relate to:
               (i) the character, credibility, reputation or criminal record of a suspect in a criminal
               investigation or witness, or the identity of a witness, or the expected testimony of a party or
               witness;
               (ii) in a criminal case or proceeding that could result in incarceration, the possibility of a
               plea of guilty to the offense or the existence or contents of any confession, admission or
               statement given by a defendant or suspect or that person's refusal or failure to make a
               statement; (emphasis is mine)
               (iii) the performance or results of any examination or test or the refusal or failure of a
               person to submit to an examination or test, or the identity or nature of physical evidence
               expected to be presented;
               (iv) any opinion as to the guilt or innocence of a defendant or suspect in a criminal case or
               proceeding that could result in incarceration; or
               (v) information that the lawyer knows or reasonably should know is likely to be
               inadmissible as evidence in a trial and that would, if disclosed, create a substantial risk of
               prejudicing an impartial trial.

The rule in its entirety is available here: https://legacy.utcourts.gov/rules/view.php?type=ucja&rule=13-
3.6

Remember that information contained in the public record is fair game. You are on firm ground when rely
on the booking probable cause statement and, in the future, on the probable cause statement that will
be included in the Criminal Information. With this in mind, I am asking that your team to carefully
consider the parameters outlined in the rule above and my attached letter.

I know the public has an extraordinary interest in this case and you have the duty to ensure Utahns know
they are safe from the shooter. You have every right and expectation to speak to our state about this
case.

Thank you.


                    Ryan McBride
                    General Crimes Division Chief
                    Utah County Attorney’s Oﬀice
                    100 East Center St., Ste. 2100
                    Provo, Utah 84606
                                                      2
(801) 851-8026




                 3
