Attachment B
From: Ryan McBride         @UtahCounty.gov>
Sent: Wednesday, January 21, 2026 1:12 PM
To: Chad Grunander         @UtahCounty.gov>
Subject: FW: Press statement ethics letter




From: Ryan McBride
Sent: Friday, September 12, 2025 7:22 AM
To:             @utah.gov; Jeff Gray       @utahcounty.gov>; Chad Grunander   @UtahCounty.gov>;
Christopher Ballard          @utahcounty.gov>;      @utah.gov
Subject: Press statement ethics letter

Please see the attached letter regarding press statements.

Thank you.


                     Ryan McBride
                     General Crimes Division Chief
                     Utah County Attorney’s Oﬀice
                     100 East Center St., Ste. 2100
                     Provo, Utah 84606
                     (801) 851-8026




                                                        1
                  Utah County Attorney

                    Jeffrey S. Gray, Utah County Attorney                                      100 East Center Street, Suite 2100
                    Chad E. Grunander, Chief Deputy                                                           Provo, Utah 84606
                    Christopher D. Ballard, Chief of Staff
                                                                                                                 p: 801.851.8026
                    Christine Scott, Major Crimes Division Chief
                    Ryan McBride, General Crimes Division Chief                                                  f: 801.851.8051
                    Paul Jones, Civil Division Chief
                    Steven G. Adams, Bureau of Investigations Chief
                    Haley Christensen, Office Manager
                    Tammy Paynter, Confidential Assistant



Date: 9/12/2025

Re:       Media statements re Tyler Robinson/Charlie Kirk

To all personnel likely to make media statements regarding the Charlie Kirk case:

The Utah County Attorney’s Office has an ethical obligation to “exercise reasonable care to prevent
investigators, law enforcement personnel,” and others from making public comments which “have a
substantial likelihood of materially prejudicing” the trial process in criminal cases. I write to satisfy that
obligation and provide guidance to you regarding statements to the media.

Rule 3.6 of the Rules of Professional Conduct for attorneys outlines the parameters of permissible statements
and can be found here. While these rules generally apply to attorneys, prosecutors have a special duty to
ensure law enforcement and other officials adhere to these rules in criminal cases as well. See Rule 3.8(e).
The point of the rules is ensure the defendant is afforded a fair trial by an impartial jury.

Key limitations to keep in mind include the following:

      •   Statements should be limited to information included in the public record – meaning the probable
          cause statement used in booking and legal papers filed in the case, like the charging document.
      •   Statements can include that the investigation is ongoing;
      •   Statements can include the next step of the criminal court process;
      •   Statements can include the date and place of the arrest; and
      •   Statements can include the names of officers and agencies involved in the investigation.

Statements should avoid the following:
    • Statements about the defendant’s character;
    • Statements about the defendant’s criminal history;
    • Opinions about the defendant’s guilt or proper punishment; and
    • Any other statements which could risk violating the defendant’s right to a fair trial.

//

//

//
                 Utah County Attorney

                   Jeffrey S. Gray, Utah County Attorney                                  100 East Center Street, Suite 2100
                   Chad E. Grunander, Chief Deputy                                                       Provo, Utah 84606
                   Christopher D. Ballard, Chief of Staff
                                                                                                            p: 801.851.8026
                   Christine Scott, Major Crimes Division Chief
                   Ryan McBride, General Crimes Division Chief                                              f: 801.851.8051
                   Paul Jones, Civil Division Chief
                   Steven G. Adams, Bureau of Investigations Chief
                   Haley Christensen, Office Manager
                   Tammy Paynter, Confidential Assistant




Prejudicial statements made to the media and public have created significant legal issues in high profile cases
– which can cause the case to be moved to another county, sanctions on prosecutors, and even dismissal. We
want to avoid those issues in all cases. Accordingly, we invite you to contact our office with any questions
about this topic, especially when your agency receives press inquiries on high-profile cases.



Sincerely,

/s/ Ryan McBride
General Crimes Division Chief
