JEFFREY S. GRAY # 5852
Utah County Attorney
CHAD E. GRUNANDER # 9968
RYAN MCBRIDE # 13079
LAUREN HUNT # 14682
DAVID STURGILL # 7995
CHRISTOPHER D. BALLARD # 8497
Deputy Utah County Attorneys
100 East Center, Suite 2100
Provo, Utah 84606
Telephone: (801) 851-8026
Email: dcourt@utahcounty.gov


                         IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
                              UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH


  STATE OF UTAH,
                                                        PROFFER OF FACTS REGARDING
                 Plaintiff,                               CLOSURE OF PORTIONS OF
                                                      EVIDENTIARY HEARING ON MOTION
  vs.                                                       TO DISQUALIFY UCAO
  TYLER JAMES ROBINSON
                                                     Case No. 251403576
                 Defendant.
                                                     JUDGE TONY F. GRAF



        Counsel for the State has conferred with defense counsel and, for the purposes of closing

the courtroom during the evidentiary hearing on Defendant’s motion to disqualify the UCAO for

the testimony of Prosecutor A and Adult Child only, defense counsel does not object to the

following proffer. Consistent with defense counsel’s original request to close the hearing on the

motion to disqualify, defense counsel agrees that in order to protect the personal privacy and safety

of witnesses Prosecutor A and Adult Child, their testimony should be conducted in a closed


                                                 1
session. These interests are contemplated in Utah Rule of Judicial Administration 4-202(2)(A), (B)

and (E).1

         Proffer of facts:

    1. Prosecutor A is a long-time prosecutor. Over the course of his career he has prosecuted

         violent crimes, including many homicides. Over the course of his career, he has received

         threats for his work as a prosecutor.

    2. Prosecutor A received threats for his work as recently as 2025. The defendant in that case,

         which is not State v. Robinson, made efforts to collect personal information, including

         social security numbers and property titles of Prosecutor A, law enforcement, and their

         family members to disseminate on the dark web. In letters, the defendant in that case

         specifically mentioned Prosecutor A by name as well as Prosecutor A’s family members by

         name, calling Prosecutor A his “#1” priority target. The defendant in that case

         communicated what he believed was prosecutor A’s address and phone number to an

         acquaintance instructing that acquaintance to work with others to use this information to

         target Prosecutor A by placing liens on his property, publishing personal information on

         the dark web, and engage in spoofing and phishing scams against him. In one letter, after

         listing Prosecutor A’s name, and purported family members’ names, the defendant in that

         case stated, “we need to have maximum exposure on [Prosecutor A].” He continued, “we

         need to prepare all UCC1 filings [liens on property] against these pieces of shit. Also comb



1
  The Court previously denied the motion to close the entirety of the Evidentiary Hearing on the Motion to
Disqualify but indicated it would consider a motion to close parts of the hearing. The State intends to move to close
the testimony of Prosecutor A and Adult Child. Counsel for Defendant and counsel for the media previously
stipulated to the closure of the hearing entirely. The State believes those stipulations will persist relating to the
State’s intended motions to close the indicated portions of the hearing.

                                                          2
   social media and get on reaching out to Tyler Robinson’s supporters online and post this

   letter [which contained Prosecutor A’s and family members’ purported names and phone

   number and address].” The defendant in that case also wrote, “Please go on a DW [dark

   web] forum, to expose this intel to all who believe in Tyler Robinson’s set up and

   innocence, and post this letter to forum chat groups about [Prosecutor A’s name].” In

   another letter, the defendant in that case wrote to his contact: “can you forward this for me

   to the DW [dark web]” and then he listed Prosecutor A’s name, his family members’

   purported names, his purported address and purported cell phone number.

3. The defendant in that case has carried out some of his threats by attacking law enforcement

   officers and causing significant bodily injury to at least one law enforcement officer.

4. The case of State v. Robinson has generated great publicity. Some people have threatened

   retaliation against Mr. Robinson while others have applauded the killing of Charlie Kirk.

5. Many witnesses in this case have received threats because of their involvement. Some have

   relocated to avoid these threats. Many have deleted online accounts and changed usernames

   and social media handles.

6. Members of Charlie Kirk’s security team have reported threats, doxing – the publication of

   personal information online for harassment purposes, and risks to them since Charlie Kirk’s

   murder.

7. Defense counsel has hired private security due to the danger this case has caused counsel.

8. The UCAO has increased its security protocols due to the risks this case has generated.




                                             3
   9. The Utah County Sheriff’s Office has increased its security protocols in transport and

       custody of the defendant during court hearings and as it relates to the security of the

       courthouse.




Dated this 2nd day of February, 2026



/s/ Ryan McBride
Deputy Utah County Attorney




                                              4
                                 CERTIFICATE OF SERVICE

       I certify that on February 2, 2026, I filed the foregoing through the court’s electronic filing

system, which served a copy on all counsel of record.



       /s/ Ryan McBride




                                                  5
