 Jeffrey J. Hunt (5855)                           C. Michael Judd (14692)
 David C. Reymann (8495)                          PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER
 Carissa A. Uresk (18114)                         201 South Main Street, Suite 1800
 PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS                        Salt Lake City, Utah 84111
 101 South 200 East, Suite 700                    Telephone: (801) 532-1234
 Salt Lake City, Utah 84111                       mjudd@parsonsbehle.com
 Telephone: (801) 532-7840
 jhunt@parrbrown.com                              Attorneys for The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica
 dreymann@parrbrown.com                           Schreifels, St. George News, the Associated
 curesk@parrbrown.com                             Press, Fox13 News, Millard County
                                                  Chronicle Progress, KOAL (Castle County
 Attorneys for the Deseret News, Deseret          Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi Free Press, The
 Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-TV,       Park Record, CBS Broadcasting, Inc., The
 KSL NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio             New York Times Company, Fox News Media,
 Television Digital News Association, and the     and Law & Crime Network
 Utah Headliners Chapter of the Society of
 Professional Journalists


                      IN THE FOURTH JUDICIAL DISTRICT COURT
                             UTAH COUNTY, STATE OF UTAH


 STATE OF UTAH,                                       NEWS MEDIA’S SUPPLEMENTAL
                                                      MEMORANDUM OPPOSING
        Plaintiff,                                    MOTION TO CLASSIFY
                                                      DEFENDANT’S MOTION FILED
 v.                                                   JANUARY 9, 2026

 TYLER JAMES ROBINSON,                                (Filed Under Seal)

        Defendant.                                    (Hearing Scheduled)

                                                      Case No. 251403576

                                                      Hon. Tony F. Graf, Jr.


       The Deseret News, Deseret Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-TV, KSL

NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio Television Digital News Association, the Utah Headliners

Chapter of the Society of Professional Journalists, The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica Schreifels, St.

George News, the Associated Press, Fox13 News, Millard County Chronicle Progress, KOAL
(Castle County Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi Free Press, The Park Record, CBS Broadcasting, Inc.,

The New York Times Company, Fox News Media, and Law & Crime Network (all collectively,

News Media) hereby oppose Defendant’s Motion to Classify Defendant’s Motion filed January

9, 2026 (Motion to Classify) (Dkt. 285).

       The News Media and the State previously opposed the Motion to Classify. (Dkts. 302,

337, 340.) But the News Media was unable to thoroughly address the merits because defense

counsel refused to provide the underlying motion to counsel for the News Media, even on an

attorneys’ eyes only basis. Now that the Court has ordered defense counsel to provide AEO

access, the News Media submits this supplemental opposition.1

       The law regarding public access to court filings has already been covered at length (see

Dkts. 302, 337), so the News Media will not belabor the point. But as a brief reminder, court

filings are presumptively public, and both the U.S. Supreme Court and the Utah Supreme Court

have recognized the public’s right of access to criminal proceedings, including pretrial filings.

See Utah Code Jud. Admin. R. 4-202.02(1), (2)(f); Richmond Newspapers, Inc. v. Virginia, 448

U.S. 555 (1980) (“From this unbroken, uncontradicted history, supported by reasons as valid

today as in centuries past, we are bound to conclude that a presumption of openness inheres in

the very nature of a criminal trial under our system of justice. This conclusion is hardly

novel….”); Press-Enterprise Co. v. Superior Ct. of Cal. for Riverside Cnty., 478 U.S. 1, 7 (1986)

(applying the right of public access to preliminary hearings because the right does not depend

“on the label we give the event, i.e., ‘trial’ or otherwise”); State v. Archuleta, 857 P.2d 234, 237–




1
  Pursuant to the Court’s Rulings and Orders dated February 23, 2026, the News Media have
filed this Supplemental Opposition under seal on a provisional basis only. However, the Court
should order the public release of this and any other sealed filings relating to the Motion to
Classify for the same reasons that the underlying evidentiary motion should be made public.


                                                  2
41 (Utah 1993) (recognizing a “presumptive right of access to documents filed in connection

with a criminal preliminary hearing” that is protected by the U.S. Constitution and the Utah

Constitution and that was recognized at common law).

       Defense counsel tries to overcome the public’s right of access by arguing that the

underlying motion “addresses evidence that has not yet been found to be admissible and is of a

nature that it could easily taint potential jurors.” (Dkt. 285.) This argument fails for two

reasons.

       First, as the News Media has briefed at length, public access cannot be denied merely

because evidence may later be ruled inadmissible. (Dkts. 302, 337.) As the State put it, “[T]he

mere fact that a court has not ruled on the admissibility of certain evidence cannot be a sufficient

basis for restricting access to a record discussing that evidence. If it were, then most pre-trial

filings discussing evidence would be presumptively protected. But rule 4-202.01(1) plainly

establishes the opposite presumption.” (Dkt. 340 at 2.) Moreover, the underlying motion does

not even argue that the evidence it discusses is inadmissible—it merely seeks an order

prohibiting further testing of the evidence and permitting a defense expert access to the evidence.

       Second, the underlying motion and the evidence it discusses belie any argument that

public access would “lead to bias and tainting of the jury pool.” (Dkt. 378.) The underlying

motion discusses and attaches a four-page ATF report on a comparison between a bullet jacket

fragment recovered during an autopsy of Charlie Kirk and a rifle recovered by law enforcement.

“The result of the comparison was inconclusive.” (See Dkt. 284, Ex. 2.) Defense counsel does

not explain how this evidence could taint or bias the jury pool. Instead, the defense argues the

evidence is exculpatory:

       The bullet jacket fragment evidence in this case is material exculpatory evidence
       within the meaning of Trombetta, and not merely “potentially useful evidence”



                                                  3
       within the meaning of Youngblood because here the ATF examination has already
       revealed that “firearms” (not just rifles) that produce general rifling characteristics
       similar to those observed on the Exhibit 6A bullet jacket fragment “include
       numerous makes and models,” and that an examination of individual characteristics
       did not reveal incriminating evidence. The evidence thus possesses an apparent
       exculpatory value within the meaning of Trombetta.

(Dkt. 284 at 6–7; see also id. at 12 (arguing the “FBI is clearly on notice of the exculpatory ATF

testing results”).) The defense’s statement that testing “did not reveal incriminating evidence”

demonstrates that the underlying motion should not be litigated in secret and that this case is

inapposite from those where courts denied public access. See, e.g., Archuleta, 857 P.2d at 236

(denying access to documents discussing a “homicide [that] was committed in a particularly

depraved manner, consisting of physical torture, anal object rape, and massive bodily injury to

the victim prior to death”).

       For these reasons, in addition to those previously argued, the defense has not overcome

the presumption favoring public access, and the Motion to Classify should be denied.




                                                 4
RESPECTFULLY SUBMITTED this 10th day of March 2026.

                                 PARR BROWN GEE & LOVELESS

                                 /s/ David C. Reymann
                                 Jeffrey J. Hunt
                                 David C. Reymann
                                 Carissa A. Uresk

                                 Attorneys for Attorneys for the Deseret News,
                                 Deseret Digital Media, Inc. d/b/a KSL.com, KSL-
                                 TV, KSL NewsRadio, KUTV 2News, the Radio
                                 Television Digital News Association, and the Utah
                                 Headliners Chapter of the Society of Professional
                                 Journalists

                                 PARSONS BEHLE & LATIMER

                                 /s/ C. Michael Judd
                                 C. Michael Judd

                                 Attorneys for The Salt Lake Tribune, Jessica
                                 Schreifels, St. George News, the Associated Press,
                                 Fox13 News, Millard County Chronicle Progress,
                                 KOAL (Castle County Radio), KUER-FM, Lehi
                                 Free Press, The Park Record, CBS Broadcasting,
                                 Inc., The New York Times Company, Fox News
                                 Media, and Law & Crime Network




                                    5
